---
layout: post
published: true
category: project
title: 'Excel and VBA Projects, bUTL'
---

Excel and VBA are an area that I know and love.  When you're working as an engineer, nearly _everything_ goes through Excel.  Being able to automate those tasks is huge.  From a programming point of view, VBA is not _that_ bad.  Probably the only language that takes abuse from serious programmers as "childish" and from non-programming business users as "insanely complex".  It's a tool that gets the job done.

## bUTL add-in
[**Find it on GitHub**](https://github.com/byronwall/bUTL)

bUTL is an add-in for Excel that is an accumulation of all the utility and helper code that I have written over the years.  It is heavily geared toward speeding up common utility tasks and is also heavily featured when it comes to working with `Charts`.  bUTL recently was published on GitHub to open source the code, provide references for others, and motivate myself to improve it.  Even putting a VBA project onto GitHub is an interesting task in itself and will get a blog post at some point.

## "Lab Apps" add-in
The Lab Apps add-in was a purpose built add-in for Excel that provided data collection, analysis, and visualization for managing quality critical data in a chemical manufacturing plant.  It was built to pull data from a Star LIMS system.  All of the analysis and visualization was done with native Excel elements.  Specific features included:

 - Built necessary SQL statements dynamically to pull in sample, batch, or specification details.
 - Provided an automated approach to analyzing Cp/Cpk metrics.
 - Provided built in SPC charting (using Star LIMS defined limits) to analyze unit performance and quality adherence.

## 198+ answers to Stack Overflow questions
I am fairly active on Stack Overflow answering Excel VBA and formula related questions.  There are a number of one-off solutions involving formulas or VBA.  There are also a couple of general utility related code that made it into bUTL after I wrote the Stack Overflow answer.

[Check out Stack Overflow answers](http://stackoverflow.com/users/4288101/byron-wall?tab=answers)
